---
title: "Study of the WannaCry virus---Building"
categories:
  - blog
  
tags:
  - Porfolio
  - CYSE368
  - ODU
last_modified_at: 2020-12-26T16:20:02-13:00

---

##In the moment of building and editing this page....


WannaCry is a ransomware that encrypts a victim’s machine, specifically targeting the Windows Operating System. The coordinated attack in May 2017 targeted vulnerable Windows around the world and encrypted thousands of workstations. The only solution to decrypt the files, which was not guaranteed, was to pay using Bitcoin due to its nature of anonymity. The malware specifically targeted unsupported versions of Windows XP, Windows Server 2003, and Windows 7. The exploit of EternalBlue, the backbone vulnerability of the WannaCry malware, was discovered by the NSA. It was privately disclosed but was leaked to the ShadowBrokers, an underground marketplace for vulnerabilities and exploits. It is hard to trace a single block to a user unless the user discloses it using their E-Wallet. While ransomware combined with Bitcoin created a challenge for tracing the attack, the preliminary testing showed that the attack originated from North Korea. The additional investigation revealed that the attack is highly suspected to be the infamous Lazarus group from North Korea. 

## Imports
The malware uses about 64 imported functions. Listed below are the names of the functions and by referencing the MSDN, their usage: 

| Address  |  Ordinal Name    |        Library |
| 00408000 |   CreateServiceA  |       ADVAPI32 |
|1)    Creates a service and passes it to a service control manager.| 
00408004    |     OpenServiceA     |        ADVAPI32 |
2)    Open the service and returns the handle if it succeeds.
00408008         StartServiceA             ADVAPI32
3)    Starts a given service with the following nonzero return if succeded.
0040800C         CloseServiceHandle        ADVAPI32
4)    Returns the handle to the service control manager. The handle returned after the open service was requested (service opened must be closed).
00408010         CryptReleaseContext       ADVAPI32
5)    Function releases the handler to the CSP (Cryptographic service provide) and a key container to store a key.
00408014         RegCreateKeyW             ADVAPI32
6)    Creates the specified registry key. However, if the key already exists in the registry it opens it.
00408018         RegSetValueExA            ADVAPI32
7)    Sets the data and type of the created open registry key.
0040801C         RegQueryValueExA          ADVAPI32
8)    Retrieves the type and data of the specified open registry key.
00408020         RegCloseKey               ADVAPI32
9)    Closes the handle to the registry key.
00408024         OpenSCManagerA            ADVAPI32
10) Establishes a connection to the service control manager and open the database of the specified target machine.
0040802C         GetFileAttributesW        KERNEL32
11) Retrieves the file system attributes of a file/directory.
00408030         GetFileSizeEx             KERNEL32
12) Retrieves the size of the files in bytes.
00408034         CreateFileA               KERNEL32
13) Creates/Open the file/IO device. The file lpFileName should be given to specify the file being opened or created.
00408038         InitializeCriticalSection KERNEL32
14) Initialize a critical section of an object. Critical section allowed for mutually exclusive access to shared resources. Multiple threads are synchronized when accessing shared resources.
0040803C         DeleteCriticalSection     KERNEL32
15) Release all resources used by an unowned critical object.
00408040         ReadFile                  KERNEL32
16)  Read data from a specified file or IO device. Lbuffer must be set to create a buffer where the data being read will be stored.
00408044         GetFileSize               KERNEL32
17) Retrieves the file size in bytes. Usually, the GetFileSizeEx is recommended instead of this API.
00408048         WriteFile                 KERNEL32
18) Writes data to a specified file.
0040804C         LeaveCriticalSection      KERNEL32
19) Release the ownership of the critical section object.
00408050         EnterCriticalSection      KERNEL32
20) Waits for the ownership of a critical section object and once the thread gains ownership, the function returns.
00408054         SetFileAttributesW        KERNEL32
21) Set the attributes of a file/directory.
00408058         SetCurrentDirectoryW      KERNEL32
22) Change the current directory based on the parameters of the lpPathName.
0040805C         CreateDirectoryW          KERNEL32
23) Creates a new Directory.
00408060         GetTempPathW              KERNEL32
24)  Retrieves the path of the directory designated for temporary files.
00408064         GetWindowsDirectoryW      KERNEL32
25) Retrieves the path of the Windows directory excluding the last backslash.
00408068         GetFileAttributesA        KERNEL32
26) Retrieves file system attribute of a file or a directory. Unlike GetFileAttributeW, GetFleAttributeA handles only strings. GetFileAttributeW allows for handling Unicode.
0040806C         SizeofResource            KERNEL32
27) Retrieves the size of a specific resource in bytes.
00408070         LockResource              KERNEL32
28) Retrieves a pointer to the specified resource in memory.
00408074         LoadResource              KERNEL32
29)  Retrieves a handle that can be used to obtain the first byte of the specified resource. This is used before LockResource, which requires a parameter of the handle.
00408078         MultiByteToWideChar       KERNEL32
30) Maps a string to a UTF-16 string (Usually requires two calls to use)
0040807C         Sleep                     KERNEL32
31) Suspends the execution of the thread until the timeout interval ends (given the parameter of milliseconds).
00408080         OpenMutexA                KERNEL32
32) Creates/Opens a named or unnamed mutex object.
00408084         GetFullPathNameA          KERNEL32
33) Retrieves the full path and file name of a specific file.
00408088         CopyFileA                 KERNEL32
34) Copies an existing file to a new file.
0040808C         GetModuleFileNameA        KERNEL32
35) Retrieves the full qualified path of a file that has a specified module.
00408090         VirtualAlloc              KERNEL32
36) Allocates memory in the address space of the calling process.
00408094         VirtualFree               KERNEL32
37)  Release a region of pages within the virtual address space. (VirtualFreeEx frees memory in another
00408098         FreeLibrary               KERNEL32
38) Frees the loaded DLL and decrements the reference count.
0040809C         HeapAlloc                 KERNEL32
39) Allocates a block of non-movable memory from the heap.
004080A0         GetProcessHeap            KERNEL32
40) Retrieves a handle to default heap to the calling process. A process can allocate memory without needing to create a private heap. 
004080A4         GetModuleHandleA          KERNEL32
41) Retrieves a module handle for the specified module that has been loaded by a current process.
004080A8         SetLastError              KERNEL32
42)  Sets the last error code for the calling thread. Functions usually call the SetLastError when it fails.
004080AC         VirtualProtect            KERNEL32
43) VirtualProtectEx changes the access protection of a process. However, VirtualProtect changes the protection of a page in the virtual address space of a process. If the page is not committed, the function fails and returns a 0.
004080B0         IsBadReadPtr              KERNEL32
44) Verifies that the current process has access to read the specified range of memory.
004080B4         HeapFree                  KERNEL32
45) Frees the memory block allocated from heap usdeHeapAlloc.
004080B8         SystemTimeToFileTime      KERNEL32
46) Converts system time to file time. System time is in UTC, file time is a 64-bit value.
004080BC         LocalFileTimeToFileTime   KERNEL32
47) Converts a local file time to UTC.
004080C0         CreateDirectoryA          KERNEL32
48) Creates a directory given a parameter of pathname and security attributes.
004080C4         GetStartupInfoA           KERNEL32
49) Retrieve contents of the STARTUPINFO structure that was specified.
004080C8         SetFilePointer            KERNEL32
50) Moves the file pointer of an open file.
004080CC         SetFileTime               KERNEL32
51) Set the time and date of a specific file/directory last access, created and modified.
004080D0         GetComputerNameW          KERNEL32
52) Retrieves the NETBIOS name of the local computer that is established during startup.  
004080D4         GetCurrentDirectoryA      KERNEL32
53) Retrieves the current directory of the current process.
004080D8         SetCurrentDirectoryA      KERNEL32
54) Changes the current directory for the current process. The pathname must be given as a parameter.
004080DC         GlobalAlloc               KERNEL32
55) Allocates a specified number of bytes from the heap. Unlike HeapAlloc, this memory is movable.
004080E0         LoadLibraryA              KERNEL32
56) Loads the specified module in the space of the current process.
004080E4         GetProcAddress            KERNEL32
57) Retrieves the address of an exported function from a specified DLL.
004080E8         GlobalFree                KERNEL32
58) Frees the specified global memory called by GlobalAlloc and nullifies the handles.
004080EC         CreateProcessA            KERNEL32
59) Creates a new process and its main thread.
004080F0         CloseHandle               KERNEL32
60) Closes an Object handle. Usually, the close handle is called once a handle is opened.
004080F4         WaitForSingleObject       KERNEL32
61) Wait for an object to be in a signaled state or when the time out interval passes (which is given as milliseconds)
004080F8         TerminateProcess          KERNEL32
62) Terminates the process and its corresponding threads.
004080FC         GetExitCodeProcess        KERNEL32
63) Get the termination status of a specified process.
00408100         FindResourceA             KERNEL32
64) Determines the location of resource given the module, name, and type.

## Table

| Address | Ordinal Name | Library |
|:--------|:------------:|--------:|
| AVAPI   | AAAAAAAAAA   | cellBB  |
| cell4   | cell5   | cell6   |
| 00408000 |   CreateServiceA  |       ADVAPI32 |
| 00408004    |     OpenServiceA     |        ADVAPI32 |
|00408008       |  StartServiceA           |  ADVAPI32|
|0040800C    |     CloseServiceHandle   |     ADVAPI32|
|00408010      |   CryptReleaseContext     |  ADVAPI32|
|00408014    |     RegCreateKeyW     |        ADVAPI32|
|00408018     |    RegSetValueExA     |       ADVAPI32|
|0040801C     |    RegQueryValueExA  |        ADVAPI32| 
|00408020   |      RegCloseKey     |          ADVAPI32|
|00408024     |    OpenSCManagerA        |    ADVAPI32|
|* 10) <br /> Establishes a connection to the service control manager and open the database of the specified target machine.|
|----
| cell1   | cell2   | cell3   |
| cell4   | cell5   | cell6   |
|=====
| Foot1   | Foot2   | Foot3
{: rules="groups"}


## Packed

It is common for malware to be packed to avoid firewall detection and reverse engineering analysis. Packing is a subset of obfuscation to make the file more difficult to analyze through encryption, compression, or both. A part of the packed program is a stub, a small portion of the code containing the decryption or decompression agent used on the packed file.  In most instances, the packaging tool used by the program are commercially or open-sourced available, but custom made packers can be used. 
To analyze if the WannaCry ransomware is packed, we use Krypt ANAlyzer(KANAL) in PEiD. 

####insert image here

As shown above, the malware is not packed, but it was created using Microsoft Visual C++. 

$$ 2+2 $$
